README.md, before:

# About
This container runs a remote instance of firefox with autofirma installed in a sandboxed environment. It can be accessed by any web browser, since it runs a remote desktop server.

# Usage
+ `./run.sh`
+ Access from any web browser at http://localhost:5800
+ If you need any certificates inside the autofirma environment, copy them inside the `certificates/` folder. They'll be available inside the container in `/config/certificates/` (`Home/certificates` in the integrated file picker).

![](doc/image.png)
# Motivation
Autofirma is required by many Spanish government websites for online operations, but its design raises several security concerns:
+ It has a messy and unstructured and hard-to-audit code structure with over 50 classes in the root directory.
+ It patches the client's web browser with javascript
+ They do not provide reproducible builds nor hashes for its built binaries
+ The built binary is downloaded from a website with a non-trusted HTTPS certificate controlled by the spanish government itself which has been known in the past to enable sketchy MITM operations
+ And many other concerns

This setup minimizes risk by running inside a container, instead of in your host machine.

It can also be used to sign documents from within an organization without sharing keys, in a centralized UI. Keep in mind, it should be secured behind a private network,and proper security practices should be performed.

# Requirements
+ `docker` https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
+ `docker-compose-plugin`

---
# TODO:
+ [ ] Pre-add exception for Autofirma root certificate, since it attempts a connection to a local wss socket, causing errors in some (not all!) signing websites! See ctt-gob-es/clienteafirma/issues/167
This is one of the websites that requires it: https://sede.carm.es/cryptoApplet/ayuda/probarautofirma.html
+ [ ] Auto-setup certificates both in autofirma and in firefox (2 at once in the system store). Add CLI.
+ [ ] Change favicon
+ [ ] custom home screen, custom bookmarks

# copyright
+ Copyright (C) 2025  Gonzalo Ruiz <rgon (at) outlook (dot) com>
+ Copyright (C) 2025  Joaquín Cuéllar <joa (dot) cuellar (at) riseup (dot) net>

# license
this file is part of the autofirma-docker project

Copyright (C) 2025  Gonzalo Ruiz <rgon (at) outlook (dot) com>
Copyright (C) 2025  Joaquín Cuéllar Padilla <joa (dot) cuellar (at) riseup (dot) net>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Commit message:

updated info about having autofirma too for signing documents

README.md, after:

# About
This container runs a remote instance of firefox and autofirma in a sandboxed environment. It can be accessed by any web browser, since it runs a remote desktop server.

# Usage
+ `./run.sh`
+ Access from any web browser at http://localhost:5800
+ If you need any certificates inside the autofirma environment, copy them inside the `certificates/` folder. They'll be available inside the container in `/config/certificates/` (`Home/certificates` in the integrated file picker).
+ you can close firefox window and by right clicking open it again or opening an Autofirma instance instead.
+ If you need any documents inside the autofirma environment, copy them inside the `documents/` folder. They'll be available inside the container in `/config/documents/` (`Home/documents` in the integrated file picker).
+ you can afterwards download them back, when signed, using the KasmVNC web GUI.

![](doc/image.png)
# Motivation
Autofirma is required by many Spanish government websites for online operations, but its design raises several security concerns:
+ It has a messy and unstructured and hard-to-audit code structure with over 50 classes in the root directory.
+ It patches the client's web browser with javascript
+ They do not provide reproducible builds nor hashes for its built binaries
+ The built binary is downloaded from a website with a non-trusted HTTPS certificate controlled by the spanish government itself which has been known in the past to enable sketchy MITM operations
+ And many other concerns

This setup minimizes risk by running inside a container, instead of in your host machine.

It can also be used to sign documents from within an organization without sharing keys, in a centralized UI. Keep in mind, it should be secured behind a private network,and proper security practices should be performed.

# Requirements
+ `docker` https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/
+ `docker-compose-plugin`

---
# TODO:
+ [ ] Pre-add exception for Autofirma root certificate, since it attempts a connection to a local wss socket, causing errors in some (not all!) signing websites! See ctt-gob-es/clienteafirma/issues/167
This is one of the websites that requires it: https://sede.carm.es/cryptoApplet/ayuda/probarautofirma.html
+ [ ] Auto-setup certificates both in autofirma and in firefox (2 at once in the system store). Add CLI.
+ [ ] Change favicon
+ [ ] custom home screen, custom bookmarks

# copyright
+ Copyright (C) 2025  Gonzalo Ruiz <rgon (at) outlook (dot) com>
+ Copyright (C) 2025  Joaquín Cuéllar <joa (dot) cuellar (at) riseup (dot) net>

# license
this file is part of the autofirma-docker project

Copyright (C) 2025  Gonzalo Ruiz <rgon (at) outlook (dot) com>
Copyright (C) 2025  Joaquín Cuéllar Padilla <joa (dot) cuellar (at) riseup (dot) net>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
